hello everyone and thank you for joining
us
we are the only thing between you and
the happy hour so it's always a tricky
time but we'll try and make it engaging
and interesting
my name is irina i'm a partner at
atomico i focus primarily on our early
stage investing and i'm hillary i'm a
principal in the investment team at
atomico and i focus on our growth stage
investing so from series b and onwards
atomico as you may know is a multi-stage
fund which means we are lucky to invest
across stages from early to growth and
we get to see a lot of scaling journeys
in the process
today what we want to do is bring you a
little bit of insight into how we look
at investments and potential investments
and how that evolves from the early
stage all the way through to growth
we want to bring you a little bit of
this investor mindset to the table so
that you can take this into account when
you plan your milestones or when you
pitch to various types of investors as
well
and so arena and i know there have been
a lot of great sessions over the past
two days deep diving into some of these
areas in particular like product market
fit or go to market or metrics and so
what we wanted to use this session for
today is to zoom out a bit and look at
the overall picture of some of these
different components that investors will
be thinking about when they're analyzing
an investment in your company and so
what you see here is a bit of a
simplified framework of seven of these
core areas that we think about as
investors when we're looking at a
potential investment opportunity and
what you see in each of the columns is
the different levels a rough idea of the
different levels of proof point or
validation that investors might expect
to see in each of these areas as you
progress from the early stages which
we'll be calling venture throughout the
course of this session so seed and
series a
all the way towards growth so series b
and onwards and so what you'll see of
course and as you'd expect is that at
the early stages the level of proof
points or validation that is needed in
each of these areas is of course much
lower
there's more risk being taken on the
investor side but this burden of proof
will increase in each of these areas as
you go towards the growth stages
but what you also might notice is there
is one row on this table where that need
for validation they are even from the
earliest stages from the seed
which is this this idea around the
narrative and this becomes really
important because because of this
dynamic at the early stages where a lot
of these areas won't be proven yet and
there won't be full validation yet how
you craft that narrative and tell that
story to investors is really key in
terms of telling them about the vision
but even at the growth stage a lot of
these areas won't be perfectly in place
yet whether it's the exact go to market
or the competitive advantage be being
fully proven out yet so that narrative
remains really important throughout the
entire course of this scaling journey
and so what arena and i do will do now
is we'll chat through each of these
seven areas in a bit more detail and
given our respective focus areas as
investors arena will focus on chatting
about the venture early stage investor
mindset in each of these areas and i'll
share my perspective around how this
evolves a bit as you reach the the
growth in the series b and onward stages
so to start with the scale of the
opportunity i'm sure you guys know that
investors will look at market size as a
potential as a key proxy for the
potential outcome size
and the way we think about market size
is
several kind of like dimensions from
your addressable total theoretical
addressable market all the way to the
actually realistic market share you can
gain
you can calculate market size in
different ways you can calculate it as
bottom up applying your pricing to a
wide set of customers you can calculate
it as a top down
where you cut the segment of the market
to reflect the the realistic
share that you're gonna a segment of
customers that you're going to to go
after
um
and in terms of like how we look at it
what is important for us at the event at
the early stages is that you have
a clear definition of what your true
market is a lot of founders go and say
oh we're playing this like huge market
of 10 billion of x and y but actually it
is not necessarily this sort of sum the
serviceable addressable market of that
product so it's really important to
understand what your true market is and
what is your realistic share that you
can achieve from that market
there isn't a minimum market size we
often get asked like you know what what
do you want to see and the reality is
different funds will expect different
market sizes based on
their own fund size their own strategies
but i one exercise that's always good to
do is think about how do i get to a
hundred million are
what does that market look like that
gets me there
and from the growth stage perspective
what we'll look at is not only have you
started to prove out these validation
points around capturing this core market
that arena just articulated but what
we'll also start to look for is some
initial proof points that are
demonstrating the market expansion
potential of your business and so this
can come in a variety of different forms
it can come from potentially product
expansion where you might be adding on
new features or product adjacency
adjacencies it can come from business
model expansion where perhaps you're
monetizing pieces of your product that
you weren't previously or even
geographical expansion where perhaps
your product is one that needs a bit of
a different product formulation in
different markets in different
geographies or different sales or go to
market motion in different geographies
and so seeing those initial proof points
around that ability to expand your
market is something that gets us very
excited at the growth stage in terms of
seeing this ability to continue to
capture even further market size
opportunities
one thing to note is is i think what we
see it's often very tempting to start to
try to capture these market expansion
opportunities as soon as you start to
identify them but one thing to keep in
mind is to really make sure you nail
that core market offering that arena
just spoke about before starting to
prove out these market expansion
abilities because it will start to take
resources and potentially dilute your
focus and so making sure you've proven
the core before starting to do some of
this expansion is is a key thing that we
would keep in mind as well
so moving on on the product side
at the earlier stages you often don't
have a fully fledged product
or a fully executed product
so we don't necessarily expect to see
that what we do expect to see is a clear
product vision and a clear product
roadmap
and ideally especially as you go towards
series a
some version of an mvp
the one the other thing we look for that
may not be obvious is
we're always going to ask ourselves what
is the secret sauce here like what is
the secret sauce of your product what is
what are like unique
assets and insights that you have
that will differentiate the product in
the in the in the long term and will
create this sort of engagement and value
um over
over a longer period of time as the
market also grows and gets more crowded
and these sort of secret sauce can be
things like
insights from your users or early
insights from your customers it can be
they can come from design partners they
can come from your experience as a
founder
but bringing those together is is
important and communicating that as well
and at the growth stage what we'll we'll
start to look for is that this secret
sauce that arena just mentioned we're
now starting to see proof points that
that is validated in the market and how
we look to see that is that it's
translating into this usage and
engagement of your product and what that
starts to prove out to us at the growth
stage is that
not only is the pain point that you
identified a real one but that this
secret sauce or the edge that your
product is tackling with that pain point
within the market really is resonating
and we see that in the usage and
engagement of your product
so on the on the product market fit
we will start by thinking about the
metrics that determine product market
fit for the specific
business you're building
because product market fit metrics will
differ depending on on the product in
some cases the most relevant metrics
would be number of customers or revenue
based metrics in other cases it's users
or community-based traction
and so we'll always tailor our view but
what we really want to see is that you
have thought about it
that you have a view on what are the
core kpis and that you monitor and track
them and use them to inform
um your your product we also want to see
that you understand
somewhat the bar or the bar you're
setting to when do you achieve product
market how do you know you'll have
product market fit
and lastly i would encourage you to also
go beyond the obvious metrics there's
obviously uh you know the standard
things that investors look at but then
there will be other metrics that are
important for your product which can be
qualitative insights customer customer
reviews it can be retention numbers it
can be certain segmentation of your
customers and just
using use those as well don't only kind
of stick to well this is what i'm
expected to but actually stick to what
you think is helpful
for you and for proving product market
fit to yourself as well not just to
investors
from a growth perspective on product
market fit it's relatively
straightforward forward versus the
venture early stage lens in it on it
which is simply that the bar becomes
higher we'll be looking for these
metrics to be at a greater scale than
they were at the earlier stage
and how that in particular is
translating into value so the one sort
of piece of product market fit that i'd
call out here from a growth stage
perspective is we will definitely be
paying attention to these items like
usage and community traction but what
we'll particularly start to need to see
validated at the growth stage is also
this element around value and that this
usage and engagement is really
translating into revenue and there's a
willingness to pay for the product that
you're providing
so after product market fit you want to
think about go to market fit
and obviously at the very early stages
you won't have this sort of like
repeatable sales playbooks in place and
we don't expect you to have that
however what we would expect is a view
on a go-to-market plan and the strategy
and a solid rationale and thinking
behind
why that is the go to market plan so we
will look into the choices you have made
for that about how you who are your key
customers which segments how what size
who are your users who are the budget
holders
and how did you derive those conclusions
based on behaviors and incentives of
these key stakeholders
as an example you can have for instance
if you're building a devtool company
your go-to-market is likely going to be
different than
if you're building an enterprise
automation
company which means you're likely to
have to think about how to create those
user attraction and community love
before you even think about the top-down
enterprise motion
and that needs to be reflected in your
thinking early on and in how you're
planning
what we see more commonly these days is
that a lot of the products have to play
a little bit with both with the bottom
up and top down and
as a founder you may not have a full go
to market team in place a senior layer
to kind of help you do that so you at
the beginning it's very important that
you also test
the various routes and decide how you're
going to sequence them what you're going
to do if you do have to combine them
and from the growth stage perspective
what we'll look to see is that these
early iterations on the go to market
side are now really starting to
crystallize into identified sales
channels and repeatable sales playbooks
so taking for example um what arena
mentioned of perhaps you're taking a
top-down go-to-market app or sorry a
bottom-up go-to-market approach in order
to really fill the top of the funnel and
start to get this community adoption
what we might pay attention to in growth
if this is applicable to your product is
have you identified these trigger points
at which you perhaps upsell to a team
account and maybe even have you
identified that there's a tipping point
at which you need to complement your
bottom-up go to market approach with a
bit of a top-down enterprise motion in
order to land some of these bigger
customers so really starting to see that
you started to crystallize that thinking
and have some initial proof points and
validation around that go-to-market
maturing and being repeatable is
something that we'll pay a lot of
attention to at the growth stage
another element or lens of our thinking
on the go to market side at growth is
also overall looking for increasing
efficiency in your go to market and so
the accumulation of insights and data
that you've gathered from these early
iterations that you've been doing will
want to start to see that this has led
to you being able to more precisely
target your customers figure out how to
find them and how to convert them and so
we'll want to start to see that be
reflected in metrics around your go to
market like your payback periods or your
sales cycles becoming more efficient or
at least identified levers that are
going to provide a path to them becoming
more efficient in the future
on the competitive advantage what we'll
spend time on is trying to understand
kind of a little bit like the secret
sauce for the product is trying to
understand what is the competitive
advantage
of the company that will compound over
time to represent this long-term mode
and this depends again on the business
you're building sometimes it's a tech
and ip because you're building something
more technical it can be proprietary
data you you have access to or you've
built
it can be category creation or a certain
brand
and sometimes it's as simple as first
mover advantage or strong execution
because there are still a lot of
businesses where
land grab is is is important at the
beginning
the other thing we'll do is we'll zoom
out and look at the overall landscape
this means looking at competitive
offerings but also
at companies that are in adjacent areas
that could expand or like you could
expand into and we'll take a view on
what's the best entry point and what do
we think wins
over the long term
and from a growth stage perspective what
we'll start to really want to see is
that this competitive advantage that you
articulated at the early stage is really
now getting validated and that we can
see proof points that show to us that
this competitive advantage really is
real and is resonating in the market and
so often by the growth stage in series b
and onwards your product will be in the
hands of your customers who have been
using it if you have potentially direct
or indirect competitors their products
will be in the hands of other customers
as well and so we then at the growth
stage spend a lot of time
validating and understanding the
competitive advantage from the customer
point of view and so we'll speak to
customers understand what their key
decision criteria were how they
evaluated perhaps your solution against
different solutions and really get some
of that anecdotal and qualitative
understanding that this competitive
advantage really is real and is
resonating
many growth investors will also have a
quantitative approach as well to
validating this competitive advantage
which will be running
wide market surveys of these customer
groups to also understand how your
product ranks relative to potentially
competing solutions in the market as
well and so generally what they'll be
looking for with all of this insights
and data is really trying to validate by
the growth stage that they can see that
you are the emerging category leader in
the space that you're playing in
moving on to founders perhaps the most
important thing um
the the first question we ask ourselves
is around this kind of founder market or
founder problem fit why are you the best
position to build this product what is
it about the insights that you have
about the experience that you have that
gives you an edge that gives you a
unique advantage and what is your story
why do you want to build what you're
building
the other thing we look at is what we
call talent magnets so what are the
early signs that you can retain
excellent talent top performers that
have chosen to join you versus
joining another startup or another large
company or starting their own
and then lastly
a very important element is the culture
we take a view that
you can you need to start thinking about
this very early on that culture needs to
be a very deliberate strategy and a
consistent effort over time
and that you cannot
course correct it or that it's much
harder to course correct later on in
particular key elements of culture such
as diversity and inclusion they become
much harder to course correct when
you're 10 people when you're 100 people
and you've not solved it versus when
you're 10 people at the beginning so i
think there are those
it's kind of easy to ignore because it
may not be the most pressing thing to
solve but they become bottlenecks going
forward also for for talent retention
and for the kind of the team you want to
build
and from the growth stage perspective a
lot of what arena just mentioned carries
over from venture over to growth in
terms of how we think about founders and
team
one thing where the the burden of proof
potentially becomes quite a bit higher
is taking this founder market fit that
arena spoke about at the early stage and
we'll want to see how this is now
bridging into a validated execution
ability that you have and so how this
founder market fit has translated into
you identifying the right milestones
starting to hit them and perform to a
plan
we definitely still spend a lot of time
thinking about this concept that arena
mentioned of being a talent magnet at
the growth stage what we'll also be
looking for is that your very strong
early performers and people that you
wanted to keep in the team are carrying
over you're able to retain them and
they're staying on for this next phase
of the journey in addition to seeing
talent join from other companies into
some of the key roles as well
and then finally from an organizational
perspective at the growth stage given a
lot of the elements that i mentioned
today around where we'll start to look
for potentially market expansion or
these repeatable playbooks around the
sales team
will want to see kind of the
thoughtfulness and talk through with you
around how you're thinking about
creating an organizational structure
that supports that continuous market
expansion that you'll be going after
and lastly the power of the narrative um
as
you saw there's differences in in terms
of like venture and growth stages but
one
kind of like combined element that
unifies them all
is the narrative
and nailing that is important at all
stages
why because the narrative brings
together all the elements of what you're
building in a compelling story that's
not just for your investors but it's a
it's a story that you you kind of tell
to your employees to your customers to
everyone
that you interface with and you need
that to be consistent and well thought
through so that you align everyone
behind the same mission and the same the
same goals
so one thing to would encourage you
always is to
invest early in building that narrative
that is clear
crisp and unique to you
and
practice it so much that it becomes
second nature and finally always have an
elevator pitch
at hand because you never know who you
run into
i think that wraps it up thank you very
much and we have
a few minutes left i'm sure
we haven't covered really everything so
who has any questions
[Applause]
and if you have a question just raise
your hand i have a mic and can run over
thank you great presentation i was
wondering about the
market sizing whether
decks should say bottoms up top down
give
some kind of
additional information besides just the
circles
i think um the first the most important
thing is that
you show the definition of
what is the market and what is the tam
and what is the salmon
and then show the numbers and i don't
necessarily think that the decks should
show the the calculations
uh you can always talk about those but
what what first thing we ask ourselves
is is this the right way to define the
true market for this product that's
probably where i would start and focus
on
and then on the bottom up top down you
can also do both because it sometimes
helps to triangulate if they're really
far apart then
you probably want to ask yourself why
thank you um what is the expected air er
in each stage
sure um
each investor will think about it a bit
differently for us
we don't have a set expected arr at each
of these stages and i think we see that
it varies sometimes we see series a or
series b companies that might be still
pre-launched
and so that's why we'll look at some of
these other ways to validate things like
product market fit it might not yet be
provable in terms of arr and so digging
into some of these other metrics around
it are something we spent a lot of time
on i think
in terms of setting out a set number of
arr at each of those stages i think
we're we're seeing that it fluctuates
quite a bit so it would be it would be
difficult to give a specific number um
yeah and maybe just to give you an
example i mean it differs a lot in the
again going back to the business you're
building and what are the metrics that
matter
i've certainly invested in companies
where at series a there was no revenue
and there was no plan to have a revenue
for the next year to 18 months because
the focus was on
community and usage so what i looked at
there is
how does that scale of usage trends how
in terms of like not just reach but also
engagement monthly weekly daily active
users
what do those users say on on twitter on
facebook or whatever and
the the revenue was not
relevant at that stage it becomes
relevant later of course it always you
always have to get to revenue but
and it's the same and in the example i
mentioned on on some of the dev or data
toolings
the initial
if the initial like effort on go to
market is on bottom up community
building
it's just harder to generate revenue
from that and that's also not where your
end game for revenue is because you your
end game is to get
these few users but then get to the head
of the team or one level up to to sell
it for the whole company so
that's even if there is revenue at that
stage is probably less indicative of the
future revenue
so i think it's about
a lot of founders as like what's the
minimum arr and it's just so the reason
it's so hard to answer that question is
because it is
very dependent on
on the business and you can have good
arr but if it comes from
you know just two customers and it's
just pilots and you cannot renew a you
know renewable contracts of one year
that's very different than like uh
repeatable um arr so i think there's one
question here and there was one more
there
thank you irina hillary i'm jordy
founder of factorial
question for both of you what are the
most common reasons for you to pass on
investment opportunities in both the
early and the growth stages
um
good question i think i mean to be
honest it can be all of these things
that we've mentioned
it can be size of the opera a lot of the
time is size of the outcome we are a
pretty large fund and so we will look
for
really outsized outcomes multi-billion
dollar
type of outcomes and sometimes you can
we can see probably that's the most
common one like for me sometimes i see
this is going to be a great business but
i think it's going to get to
in the best case scenario 7 800 million
and it's i i find it hard to see a path
to 10 billion or
even a couple of billion that's that's i
think is common
um
the founder
question is also
sometimes i mean it's one of the things
that people never like to tell you
because it's like
it can be taken very personal but there
are situations where it's not clear why
the founder is really differentiating
building that business or
or
the the founders that spike very much on
one thing but haven't complimented
themselves to someone to help them on
all the other things that they may not
um
you know have because that's what
happens when you spike on one thing and
so i think that's another quite common
um
common
reason if i had to pick up two but it
can be any of those in or a combination
of them most often
yes the answer wouldn't be that
different for us at the growth stage i
agree i think one of the ones that often
comes to mind is is that market size and
size of the opportunity question which
again comes back to why crafting that
narrative around
what is the scale of the opportunity
that you're going after is is so
important um one other one for us that's
that's really important to us as a fund
as well as this idea around alignment of
vision and so that's why we spend a lot
of time also understanding how you think
about this market evolving what is the
roadmap that you've set out to achieve
it and making sure that we're aligned we
definitely see that founders are are the
ones who have the best insights into how
to go after this opportunity but that
alignment in terms of how you're
planning to tackle it is is another
thing that we spend a lot of time on and
want to make sure that we get right
together as well
um thanks for the presentation uh
question around the ownership is there
any particular things you look at at a
cap table and what's your views and
expectations around distributed
ownership between
the team
you mean um
if the founder basically has less
ownership because it's
or yeah and in general particular things
you look for like delusion how much does
the owner own or the founder own the
versus the team co-founders investors
and such
i mean in the early stages we expect the
founders to still i think in general we
want the founders to own enough to be
incentivized to to to keep going with
the business
at the early stages um
we expect the founders to still own the
majority at least when we come in
what we have
had challenges with in the past is for
instance university spinouts where you
have like a 30 percent
owned by
an university because you have taken the
ip from there i think those are very
difficult cap tables for us to get into
um
but otherwise i think if the founder is
you know very like an ownership of 10 20
on the founders is way too low for the
for the
the beginning because it's going to keep
getting diluted i don't know if that's
helpful but we don't have like a certain
like number what we want to see is the
founders own still a big chunk of the
business there is obviously an option
pool for future employees and then
generally there's like maybe a seed
investor and then there's like we we
come in a da
for instance that would be an example
but i think we would worry if the
founder had 10 percent
hi er esp from kindly so obviously you
you have an investment committee and you
make a business case and how how do you
align that next exit with the founders
like in the case of space maker that you
did
then
just after a couple of couple of years
there was this exit already to to
autodesk
uh with a really good return on on your
investment as well so
do you do you
look on potential industrial exits
together with the with the founders when
you enter investments like that
i mean it really depends ideally we want
to see the company grow for
many years and become a multi-million
dollar company and exit through an ipo
or large
m a
but there are
some companies that have opportunities
to exit earlier where the exit is
interesting to the founders
and we generally align with them and we
we generally go where the founders
i think as a fund were more
founder-friendly so to say so we will
have a discussion if we disagree we will
be open about it
but we've not had necessarily massive
massive conflicts around those those
things but
the objective is to build really large
companies but obviously not all
companies get to be very large company
so
we
we adjust on the way
[Music]
you